v0.41 changelog: program capture (#7225)
PennyLaneAI/pennylane: doc/releases/changelog-0.41.0.md

<h4>Capturing and Representing Hybrid Programs 📥</h4>

Quantum operations, classical processing, structured control flow, and dynamicism can be efficiently 

> expressed with *program capture* (enabled with :func:`qml.capture.enable <pennylane.capture.enable>`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
expressed with *program capture* (enabled with :mod:`qml.capture <pennylane.capture>`).
```

Author: Actually what's there is correct! 😅

In the last several releases of PennyLane, we have been working on a new and experimental feature called 
*program capture*, which allows for compactly expressing details about hybrid workflows while 
also providing a smoother integration with just-in-time compilation frameworks like 
[Catalyst](https://docs.pennylane.ai/projects/catalyst/en/stable/index.html) (via the :func:`~.pennylane.qjit` 
decorator) and JAX-jit. 

Internally, program capture is supported by representing hybrid programs via a new intermediate representation 
(IR) called ``plxpr``, rather than a quantum tape. The ``plxpr`` IR is an adaptation of JAX's ``jaxpr`` 
IR.

> There are some quirks and restrictions to be aware of while we strive towards that ideal, which are 

Author: ```suggestion
There are some quirks and restrictions to be aware of, which are 
```

> outlined in the :doc:`/news/program_capture_sharp_bits` page. But with this release, many of the 

Reviewer: Is this meant to link to the page?

Author: Yyyyyes... althought I don't think it'll work because changes from the RC branch haven't been merged in.

  [(#6925)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6925)
  [(#6945)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6945)
  [(#6946)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6946)
  [(#6957)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6957)
  [(#6977)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6977)
  [(#7020)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/7020)
  [(#7199)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/7199)
  
  The following transforms natively support program capture (i.e., they directly transform ``plxpr``):

  * :func:`pennylane.transforms.merge_rotations`
  * :func:`pennylane.transforms.single_qubit_fusion`
  * :func:`pennylane.transforms.unitary_to_rot`
  * :func:`pennylane.transforms.merge_amplitude_embedding`
  * :func:`pennylane.transforms.commute_controlled`
  * :func:`pennylane.transforms.decompose`
  * :func:`pennylane.map_wires`
  * :func:`pennylane.transforms.cancel_inverses`

  Other transforms without a plxpr-native implementation and that return a single device execution are 
  also supported by internally converting the tape implementation. As an example, here is a custom tape 

>   transform, working with capture enabled, that shifts every `qml.RX` gate to the end of the circuit:

Author: ```suggestion
  transform that shifts every `qml.RX` gate to the end of the circuit:
```

      return [new_tape], lambda res: res[0]

  @shift_rx_to_end
  @qml.qnode(qml.device("default.qubit", wires=1))
  def circuit1():
      qml.RX(0.1, wires=0)
      qml.H(wires=0)
      return qml.state()

  @qml.qnode(qml.device("default.qubit", wires=1))
  def circuit2():
      qml.H(wires=0)
      qml.RX(0.1, wires=0)
      return qml.state()
  ```

  ```pycon
  >>> circuit1() == circuit2()
  Array([ True,  True], dtype=bool)
  ```

  There are some exceptions to getting tape transforms to work with capture enabled:
  * Transforms that return multiple device executions cannot be converted.
  * Transforms that return non-trivial post-processing functions cannot be converted.
  * Transforms will fail to execute if the transformed quantum function or QNode contains:
    * `qml.cond` with dynamic parameters as predicates.
    * `qml.for_loop` with dynamic parameters for ``start``, ``stop``, or ``step``.
    * `qml.while_loop`.

* Python control flow (`if/else`, `for`, `while`) is now supported when program capture is enabled.
  [(#6837)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6837)
  [(#6931)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6931)

>   One of the values in using program capture is preserving a program's structure, which includes not 
>   unrolling control flow operations. In previous releases, this could only be accomplished by using 
>   :func:`pennylane.for_loop`, :func:`pennylane.cond`, and :func:`pennylane.while_loop`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  One of the strengths of program capture is preserving a program's structure, eliminating
  the need to unroll control flow operations. In previous releases, this could only be accomplished
  by using :func:`pennylane.for_loop`, :func:`pennylane.cond`, and :func:`pennylane.while_loop`. 
```

  With this release, standard Python control flow operations are now supported with program capture:

  ```python
  qml.capture.enable()
  dev = qml.device("default.qubit", wires=[0, 1, 2])

  @qml.qnode(dev)
  def circuit(num_loops: int):
      for i in range(num_loops):
          if i % 2 == 0:
              qml.H(i)
          else:

>               qml.RX(1,i)

Author: ```suggestion
              qml.RX(1, i)
```

  0: ──H────────┤  State
  1: ──RX(1.00)─┤  State
  2: ──H────────┤  State
  >>> circuit(3)
  Array([0.43879125+0.j        , 0.43879125+0.j        ,
         0.        -0.23971277j, 0.        -0.23971277j,
         0.43879125+0.j        , 0.43879125+0.j        ,
         0.        -0.23971277j, 0.        -0.23971277j], dtype=complex64)
  ```

  This is enabled internally by [diastatic-malt](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/diastatic-malt), which 
  is our home-brewed implementation of Autograph. 

  Support for this can be disabled by setting `autograph=False` at the QNode level (by default, `autograph=True`).

* QNodes can now contain mid-circuit measurements (MCMs) and classical processing on MCMs with `mcm_method = "deferred"` 
  when program capture is enabled.
  [(#6838)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6838)
  [(#6937)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6937)
  [(#6961)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6961)

  With `mcm_method = "deferred"`, workflows with mid-circuit measurements can be executed when program
  capture enabled. Additionally, program capture unlocks the ability to classically process MCM values

>   and use MCM values as gata parameters.

Author: ```suggestion
  and use MCM values as gate parameters.
```

>   With `mcm_method = "deferred"`, workflows with mid-circuit measurements can be executed when program
>   capture enabled. Additionally, program capture unlocks the ability to classically process MCM values
>   and use MCM values as gata parameters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  With `mcm_method = "deferred"`, workflows with mid-circuit measurements can be executed with program
  capture enabled. Additionally, program capture unlocks the ability to classically process MCM values
  and use MCM values as gate parameters.
```

  def f(x):
      m0 = qml.measure(0)
      m1 = qml.measure(0)

      # classical processing
      a = jnp.sin(0.5 * jnp.pi * m0)
      phi = a - (m1 + 1) ** 4

      qml.s_prod(x.astype(float), qml.RX(phi, 0))

      return qml.expval(qml.Z(0))
  ```

  ```pycon
  >>> f(0.1)
  Array(0.00540302, dtype=float64)
  ```

  Note that, with capture enabled, the number of wires given to the device must coincide with how many
  MCMs are present in the circuit, since deferred-measurements adds one auxiliary qubit per MCM.

* Quantum circuits can now be differentiated on `default.qubit` and `lightning.qubit` with 
  `diff_method="finite-diff"`, `"adjoint"`, and `"backprop"` when program capture is enabled.
  [(#6853)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6853)
  [(#6875)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6875)
  [(#7019)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/7019)

  ```python
  qml.capture.enable()

  @qml.qnode(qml.device("default.qubit", wires=3), diff_method="adjoint")
  def f(phi):
      qml.RX(phi, 0)
      return qml.expval(qml.Z(0))
  ```

  ```pycon
  >>> qml.grad(f)(jnp.array(0.1))
  Array(-0.09983342, dtype=float64, weak_type=True)
  ```

> * QNode arguments can now be assigned as static. In turn, PennyLane can now smartly determine when plxpr 

Author: Might be worth linking to more information on what a "static" argument is? Maybe somewhere in JAX docs

> * QNode arguments can now be assigned as static. In turn, PennyLane can now smartly determine when plxpr 
>   needs to be reconstructed based on dynamic and static arguments, providing efficiency when repeatedly
>   executing a circuit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* QNode arguments can now be assigned as static. In turn, PennyLane can now determine when plxpr 
  needs to be reconstructed based on dynamic and static arguments, providing efficiency for repeated
  circuit execution.
```

  [(#6938)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/6938)
  [(#7037)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/7037)

> <h4>Program capture and dynamic shapes</h4>

Author: FYI I moved these features from the "New features" section into their own program capture section in improvements
